- [Instructor] Let's start building
our first Jenkins pipeline.
We'll create it within the room service project,
which you'll notice I've switched over to use Maven.
When working with Jenkins,
the pipeline is written within a Jenkins file
that's normally placed in the root directory of a project.
Let's go ahead and we can create this file with Eclipse.
Just right click on the project,
then go to new and then come down here and click file.
Then just name the file Jenkins file.
Now, one thing to really look out for here,
make sure the F is lowercase.
If you have the name correct, go ahead and hit finish
and that will create our new Jenkins file inside of Eclipse.
Eventually we'll need to create a Jenkins file
for each microservice,
but for now let's work in this project
and we'll make the script generic enough that later
we can just drop it into the other projects.
Inside of this Jenkins file
is where we'll define our pipeline.
The code in the file uses a DSL
that has a declarative syntax
which is very similar to Groovy.
Within eclipse, I've already installed
the Jenkins editor plugin,
it provides some code completion and syntax highlighting
that'll help us write our pipeline.
To start out, we'll need to add a pipeline block
in the Jenkins file.
It holds all of the stages and steps
that we want to include within our pipeline.
It's really where we define all the actions in the build.
After declaring our pipeline,
we need to specify what agent the pipeline will run on.
Here, I'm going to go ahead and set this to any,
this will cause a new workspace to be created
for the pipeline and an executer to be allocated for it.
The workspace is like a folder where the pipeline stores
all of its files and the executer will run the pipeline
on one of Jenkins nodes.
Let's save our file and then we'll head over
to the Jenkins configuration and I'll show you what I mean.
Once you're in Jenkins,
go ahead and click on the manage Jenkins option
on the sidebar and then click on manage nodes.
Here, you'll see the master node for our Jenkins server.
Let's click on that.
And then we're going to go ahead
and click on its configuration.
So in Jenkins, a node is a system that builds can be sent
to by the central Jenkins controller.
This allows the work performed by Jenkins
like our builds to be distributed and scaled
across a number of hosts.
In a typical corporate environment,
you'll find many nodes connected to Jenkins,
but in our lab, we're just going to be running
the Jenkins controller and builds on the same system.
Now, if you're running part of your build in a container,
it's important these nodes have Docker installed on them,
and we do have Docker in the lab.
Now at the moment we have two executor's on our node,
but I'm going to go ahead and increase this to five
that way we can run more builds at the same time.
Once you've upped the number of executor's
just go ahead and hit save,
that way those changes are applied to our master node.
So now we have a Jenkins file,
a skeleton for a pipeline and a few more executor's.
In our next lesson, we'll expand upon this pipeline
to establish the stages in our CI process.